Is it on now?
Yes, it is.
Well,
you missed the first joke of the morning,
but I will continue in
English instead of Dutch.
I was just going to say that I hope
one day I'll be able to just have,
like, a room to myself where
I can do it in Dutch.
It would be so fantastic.
Anyway, let's get through this.
Actually, I have a fairly short session,
which will leave more time for Q&A,
which is actually good because I'm
sure you have a lot of questions,
and I actually also want to hear
some feedback from you guys.
So, the session,
Managing Secure Data on the iPhone.
The phone, you know,
is an even more personal item and
even more networked item than,
you know, any laptop maybe already is,
but at least in my opinion.
So, you know,
what are you going to do about
all that secure data that people
carry around and care a lot about?
So, secure data, in general,
you have various kinds.
Basic ones, like passwords, then,
of course, you know, keys as well,
your private, public keys, et cetera.
Or just, you know,
plain data that you actually
bulk encrypted or had signed.
So,
what do you do with that on the phone?
Well, good news is we also have
the keychain on the phone.
So, you know, your passwords,
your certificates, your identities,
all of that can go right in there.
But the remainder of your data,
you have to choose what to do.
Now, either you can store it locally
on the device and use bulk
encryption to keep it secure,
but you may also say, like, well,
you know, I'm so well networked now,
maybe I'm just going to leave the data.
And in that case, of course,
you want to have a good strategy to have
secure communication with your back-end
server that your phone is talking with.
So, this morning,
what are we going to go through?
Most of the functionality I'm
going to talk about is in security
framework and some of it in the
libraries that are related to it.
I'm going to have to make a distinction
a little bit between Mac OS X and
the iPhone OS or the OS X iPhone,
as it's called now.
These names change so fast.
I'm going to refer to
them as desktop and phone.
I think we'll all be happier with a
short term that says what it says.
So, first, those two,
then we can get into the details
of what exactly is there,
how do you deal with the
keychain on the phone,
how do you deal with
certificates on the phone,
TLS, SSL, how does that work,
low-level crypto, to finish it all off.
And root certificates,
I'm actually not going to
get into APIs as much because
there are non-public ones.
But I'm going to bring
it up because it is,
of course,
of interest and I'm going to show
you at least what an end user
can do or a company that wants
to provision a bunch of phones.
So, first off...
A lot of things are similar.
Obviously, we're not going to just start
completely from scratch.
One of the key pieces in that is,
of course, having common crypto,
which contains all of our algorithms.
A subtle difference already
apparent there is that on the phone,
we actually have some crypto hardware.
And for that,
we have acceleration for your
SHA-1 and your AES needs.
Now, subtlety about that, too,
is that one of the reasons to have
acceleration there is not just so that
you can do it faster on a slow platform.
It's also, you know, power-wise,
if you have optimized hardware for it,
that will actually take less power.
And that is, of course, very useful.
Secondary, all the APIs that you
know from the desktop,
if you have familiarity with the desktop,
exist.
So, you know,
if you look for the header files,
you will find them.
But there are some differences.
And one of those differences is
that CDSA is not there on the phone.
So whenever the APIs actually
use explicit CDSA-isms,
we have to come up with a
different API to get around that.
So that brings us to the differences.
And I've kind of already given
away the first differences.
CDSA existed on the desktop so that you
could kind of hook into a really broad
crypto API at the lower level and extend
the system in whatever way you wanted.
We don't have that on the phone.
Of course,
it has also grown over the various
years into lots of directions trying to
serve every need found on a desktop OS,
which is presumably bigger
than it is on a phone system.
And we've actually come up with an
API that we pinpointed and tried to gear
towards the applications that we expect.
And, you know,
not only just for time limit,
because obviously we couldn't
have reconstructed all
of it in the time given.
One other big difference is on OS X,
you can store stuff in the keychain
with one application and another
application can come by and say,
like,
that's the item that I'm looking for.
I would like to use that.
And then there's the user who can
help make the decision whether or
not application B can use application
A's stored password there and,
you know, make the user happy that he
doesn't have to key it in again.
Now, on the phone,
we don't do that much interaction.
You may have noticed that you don't
enter a password to unlock your keychain.
We sign in an actual --
is the keychain access
identifier for which the current
application that connects to it.
I'll get into more details
later to make that really clear.
And last of all,
the Sec Keychain API doesn't
exist on the phone.
We have the Sec Item API, and with that,
I'd like to get to the next session
and talk to you about the keychain.
So the keychain APIs on Mac OS X are
pretty flexible and allow you
to specify all kinds of things
to also make it possible to plug
into various other CDSA plug-ins,
et cetera.
But we looked at what
developers ended up doing,
and, you know, most of you come up with,
like, a simple wrapper over it and say,
like, "Okay,
this is really what I want." You know,
"It's nice that you have this whole API.
I don't care.
I want something simple.
This is how I want to do my
work." So we looked at that,
and we tried to come up with an API that
was more in line with those usages.
And therefore, on iPhone OS,
we're going to introduce a streamlined
API called the Sec Item API,
and that's going to replace-- or
that will be your replacement for
the Sec Keychain API on the phone.
Now, the Sec Item API is different
in that it uses CF types.
It uses them both for
values and for collections.
And as a result, we no longer have, like,
a Sec Keychain Item ref that you'd first
have to get back to query it because,
well, we're just going to pass you back
the attributes as a dictionary,
and you can dig in there
as much as you want.
Of course, we have to keep it similar,
too.
We're not going to, you know,
make changes that make no sense at all.
So if you have passwords,
there's generic-- support for
generic and Internet passwords.
Generic passwords are
really simple passwords.
You know, this is the account,
this is the server,
and this is the password,
and that's all I really
have to say about that.
Internet passwords are slightly
more intricate in that they let
you specify the various attributes
of an Internet connection,
say, you know,
what port am I connecting to
or what protocol am I using,
allow you to specify
a little more details,
and then you can just go
back and look at your data.
The schemas of both desktop
and phone are the same,
so there should be no
surprises in that sense.
It also stores the certificate
keys and the identities.
Not much more to say about that.
We'll get into the details later.
And it exposes four
API functions to do all its work.
That's, of course, a little bit,
you know, cheeky because, like,
four API functions, yes, and, what,
30 constants you pass
all those parameters in,
so you cannot really measure it by that.
But first function, of course,
is secitemcopymatching.
You specify what you're
looking for in a keychain,
and it goes in, digs it out for you,
and tells you whether it found something.
Then for adding stuff,
there's secitemadd and secitemupdate.
Those are fairly similar, but they,
of course,
have slightly different semantics.
secitemadd will, of course,
not let you add an item that
already existed on the keychain,
and secitemupdate won't let you
update an item that doesn't exist yet.
Those semantics may not
be useful to all of you,
but I'm sure that there are some of you
that will be happy that we have those.
And, of course,
if you want to get rid of the item again,
there's the secitemdelete.
One feature that you will not have
seen that we thought was really
useful is persistent item references.
And persistent item references let
you basically find an item and then
get back a reference for it that
will just be an opaque piece of
data that you can just hang onto,
and by which you can find that item
again and query it for whatever
attributes you want from it.
That's especially useful
if you have items that are,
you know, harder to query for or that you
really specifically meant this
item and not anything else.
And then finally,
we have to talk a little bit about the
differences between ACLs and access
groups that I already brought up.
So let's jump in and
look at a simple example.
For a sec item add,
we're going to start putting all
these keychain items on there and
[Transcript missing]
So that was SecItemAdd and the creation
of that initial attribute dictionary.
What does SecItemUpdate look like?
I've highlighted the lines that actually
are different between SecItemAdd and
update so that hopefully you won't
have to read it all again and get
a feel for what's different here.
So update actually takes the same
three arguments except this time,
you know,
the password passed in is the one
field that we actually want to update.
We don't want to just say like, you know,
So,
the current item has the wrong password.
We already figured that out.
We're going to update it.
So, we prepare the dictionary again
with the common attributes for item.
Then we add the account and
the server to find the item.
Now we create another
dictionary because update,
of course, has to not only be able
to update the password,
it also needs to be able
to update other attributes,
if you like.
So, in that secondary dictionary,
we stuff in the password
that we've now updated and we
pass that to SecItemUpdate.
It has two values, of course.
One is the query.
Go find me this item and update
here are the new attributes
I'd like to set on this item.
So that's update.
Now that we have the
item on the keychain,
how do we find it back?
Here's copy matching.
Copy matching just gets
account and server.
We start again with that same
standard attribute dictionary
we add to two values passed in.
And now one thing that changes is
like we'll have to tell it what
do we want back from this item.
[Transcript missing]
So after that,
Sec Item Delete is very simple.
Sec Item Delete, again, creates the same
dictionary and just says,
okay, delete it, that's it.
In the beginning,
I mentioned the persistent item refs,
and I wanted to show a quick
example to see how that would work.
Of course,
that's not a different function call,
but I'm going to show you, like,
what attributes actually
come in play to use that.
So for persistent refs,
let's say you have an identity and you're
about to store it into the key chain.
Identity is kind of hard to find if
you -- hard to find which identity
you're actually looking for.
You don't necessarily want to parse
apart a whole certificate just to
find some good attributes in which you
can find it in the key chain again.
So let's add it and let's ask
for a persistent ref back.
So here we have a function,
persistent ref for identity.
We pass in the identity.
And now we're going to specify
the dictionary for the add call.
We're going to say, like,
I would like a persistent reference back.
So we set the KSEC return
persistent ref to true.
And what I'm passing in here is
actually not a password item.
It's actually a reference to an item.
Identities, certificates, keys,
those are all in here.
So we're going to add it.
So let's add it.
Conrad Sauerwald Conrad Sauerwald:
And let's ask for a persistent ref back.
So here we have a function,
persistent ref for identity.
We pass in the identity.
they're not actually just
dictionaries of values,
they're actually slightly larger objects,
so hence you end up using those
as a reference to those items,
and we specify that as KsecValueRef,
and KsecValueRef will be set to Identity.
[Transcript missing]
Okay.
So we have the persistent ref.
Then we come back.
How do we find that item again?
All right.
There's the CFDataRef.
That's the persistent ref that we have.
And as you see, it's fairly similar.
This time we ask, hey,
give us a ref back instead of
specifying it as the value.
And we ask for the value
as a persistent ref.
So we're passing in the persistent
ref here is what it means.
Again, same call, sec item copy matching.
And what comes back now is actually
suddenly not a persistent ref,
but what comes back is
actually sec identity ref.
So that's why you see the casting around.
The second argument is a CF type ref.
So you'll have to work around that.
All right,
so that's how persistent refs work.
Another case that you may run into,
say you have multiple passwords
in there and they actually share a
couple of attributes that are the
same and a couple are different and
you happen to actually want to find
all items first to let the user,
for example, pick which one they wanted.
All right,
so normally it returns you one item
and you can be guaranteed that if
you don't specify any property.
However, if you want multiple items,
all the APIs that I talked about
can also return arrays of items.
That means that if you used
to get back a data ref,
you'll get back an array of data refs.
If you used to get back a dictionary ref,
you get it back an array of dictionaries.
For the example here, we're going to say,
like, okay, show me, like,
all the generic passwords that I have.
Ksec class set to generic passwords.
Give me the attributes.
I don't yet want the value.
I'm just going to ask the user to
pick which particular item I want.
And now I'm going to tell it, okay,
not just one.
I'm going to be explicit.
I'm going to say, like, hey,
give me all items.
And I do that with the
Ksec match limit property.
And that's how you get multiple
items out of the keychain.
So that was the quick look at SecItem.
Now let's talk a little bit
higher level about what it means,
this difference between
ACLs and access groups.
So OS X has a user that can actually
make decisions and gets various
dialogues in which they can make
decisions about whether they want
app A to use app B's passwords.
And they can also be queried
for their passwords to indicate
that they have ownership of that
keychain before that can happen.
So in that way,
there's a very nice way in which you
can kind of elevate privileges and
redistribute them amongst applications.
On the phone,
the user doesn't have that password.
The user is not the one that can type
it in and can do something with that.
So we have the key for them
is embedded in the hardware.
Someone asked yesterday,
is it related to my SIM?
No, it's in the hardware.
It's in the physical device.
It's meant to keep the keychain secure
when it travels outside of device,
which it will eventually do when
you make a backup with iTunes,
for example.
[Transcript missing]
Secure Data on iPhone OS and how to
carry out basic cryptographic operations,
coordinate the secure storage of
sensitive passwords and manage
X.509 digital certificates
with respective trust policies.
Conrad Sauerwald
So keys can also be
stored in a key chain.
They get stored with a different key,
the Ksec class key,
a little bit of a weird name for that,
but it would be more annoying
to call it Ksec class key,
class key.
Also, you get it returned as a ref,
and when you have a sec key,
then you can actually do the raw
asymmetric key operations on it,
sign, verify, or encrypt, decrypt,
depending on what type of key it is.
And you can specify
optional padding on it.
Currently, there is only PQCS1 padding.
Again,
if you want OAP or anything like that,
file bugs,
tell our higher-ups that you need it.
Sec key generate pair would actually
be a really nice one to have more
fleshed out because we do allow you
to generate a key pair on the phone,
which is, of course,
the most secure way to go.
That way, you know,
it has never sat on someone's
computer or something like that.
So you can actually do that.
And then, of course,
you can also do that with
a lot of other things.
So, again, if you have a lot of other
things that you need to do,
you can do that with
a lot of other things.
So you can actually do that
with a lot of other things.
If it's a mobile phone or a laptop,
and you want to make your
laptop get stolen in any way,
it actually will only be on the phone,
but it is not entirely useful to you
yet because if you wanted to use it for,
say, client-side authentication,
then you would have to get
that public key off the device
and possibly as a CSR to prove
that you have ownership of it,
and that is currently not a public API.
Of course, you could figure out your
own schemes around it.
It will generate you a key pair.
You can obviously do raw signing,
verifying, encrypting,
decrypting operations.
So that's SecKey.
Sec Identity is, of course,
the logical follow-up to that.
Sec Identity really just represents
both a combination of a certificate
and its associated private key.
The certificate itself obviously
contains the public key that goes with
the private key and has some additional
data signed in by certificate authority.
Sec Identity also gets
stored in the keychain.
Interesting to note is that they get
stored in the keychain as two various,
two items,
as a Sec Certificate and a key.
But you can just use the
Ksec class identity to say,
like, I want an identity,
and it will basically line them
up such that the certificates
that go with the keys,
if it finds pairs of them,
that will represent an identity and
those will then be returned to you
when you ask for that particular class.
They also get returned to you as a ref.
And, you know,
the most obvious thing you do with
the Sec Identity is actually ask it,
give me the private key or give me the,
or give me access to the certificate.
So as I mentioned,
there's no way for you to get
a generated key on a device
off the device with a CSR yet.
And although the possibility exists
to import a P12 key pair using,
you know, the high-up user-level APIs,
that won't be accessible to you.
So that's why we made the
P12 import API public.
With that, you can transport a key
and the certificate,
encrypt it with a password,
and send that blob to the phone and
have your application import it.
Now, if your application
adds it to the keychain,
obviously it will own it and it will
be able to use it for future purposes.
If someone imports an
identity to the phone using,
you know, email, Safari,
then it will actually only be accessible
by the applications that Apple ships.
[Transcript missing]
Now that you have a trusted search chain,
you either can just go ahead and
continue with your SSL connection.
You know that you trust the server,
and you can start communicating secure
data over that channel without worrying
that some other party is involved there.
But maybe you have a trust
chain and you actually want
to validate some information.
Now, if you want to do a raw verify of
a signature somewhere on there,
you're going to have to get a
SEC key to do that operation.
So a SEC trust ref, after it's evaluated,
has the chain, and by that,
it can actually get the public key
from the leaf as well as possible
parameters that may exist in the
remainder of the chain to build you an
appropriate key with which you can do,
you know, encryption or signing.
If after all of this you have
a different way in which you'd
like to establish whether you
trust this particular other host,
you can, of course,
access the certificate chain
as it was built up for you.
It gives you access using
account and accessing all
the items at various indexes.
So that is SecTrust, and by that,
I've actually also, on the side,
discussed the secure transport issue.
On the desktop, there's secure transport,
which you could use if you wanted to be,
you know, down to the metal or CF network
if you like that better.
On the phone, we only have CF network.
It's the same secure transport,
so there's full TLS SSL v3 support.
And I've shown you with the examples
how we expect you to be able to do
custom server certificate trust as
well as client-side authentication.
So now we're all the way down
to the low-level crypto APIs.
Those were similar in terms
of common crypto is the same.
Common crypto allows you-- for people
that are new to this-- allows you to
do various kinds of symmetric crypto,
and it also has algorithms to
do secure hashing and HMACing.
We've also added an API called
Sec Random to produce you random
numbers that may be useful to you if you
end up wanting to generate a symmetric
key of sorts that you can then store
on the keychain to keep it safe for you.
[Transcript missing]
For digesting, we have like a whole
suite of SHA digesting.
If you were using OpenSSL before
and you actually want to
make it easier on yourself,
you can define the common
digest for OpenSSL,
do a pound to find of that,
before you include the
common crypto header,
and it will actually include a couple
of quick macros that will just convert
your OpenSSL calls into the appropriate
digesting calls in common crypto.
And last of all, there is HMAC.
Of course,
pretty much similar to digest algorithms,
we support the HMAC variant of that.
As I mentioned,
some of these are accelerated.
So the same goes for this here.
AES shall one and HMAC shall one will,
as a result, be accelerated if you go
across a certain threshold.
It's hardware.
You have to trap into the kernel.
You know, there is a cost to that.
So it has some built-in thresholds,
but you don't have to think about that.
We'll pick an optimal
number and do it for you.
So, SecRandom, it's a very simple API.
It's really not something that
you may need a lot of help with.
Normally speaking,
you just open DefRandom
and get some bytes out.
Well, this one actually doesn't
do it any different.
It opens DefRandom for right now,
but in the future,
if we have better random number sources,
we may, you know,
find different ways to do it,
and you will be able to access
those through SecRandom.
The advantage here of using SecRandom
is that it gives us the ability
of just opening DefRandom once.
You don't have to write the
extra lines of code to open it,
write a couple of bytes,
make sure that it was properly open so
you don't just get a bunch of zeros.
But if, you know, all the frameworks end
up using SecRandom,
then there only really needs
to be one file descriptor open
to get these random numbers.
So that's why there is a function for it.
Example usage shows how simple it is.
Sec random copy bytes
does what you expect.
It allows you to specify a
type of random numbers and,
of course, a length and a buffer to put
them in to return them to you.
So that was really all I had for
the API that exists on the phone
and I'm sure we'll have a lot
of feedback from you about it.
I did want to talk about root
certificates for a moment.
Root certificates, of course,
play a role on the phone.
They are not currently
modifiable by user APIs,
but I'll show you how a user
can currently manipulate them.
[Transcript missing]
And that kind of concludes it.
As I said, like,
let us know what you need to get
your applications out and running.
And, well,
we'll look forward to seeing some
brilliant applications from you guys.
So for more information,
the documentation was updated so
that it also makes references to the
various pieces that apply on the phone.
And there is a piece of sample
code out there that will specify
to you how to deal with SecItem.
If you have any questions that
you don't want to ask here,
you can always contact Craig Keithley.
And the related sessions, unfortunately,
are already over.
They were earlier this week.
I'm mentioning them now in case someone
watches this on a DVD in a future time,
if such a thing comes to pass.
And then they may be able to go
back and look at those sessions
again and see if there is additional
information they can learn from those.
However, this afternoon there will be
an iPhone OS security lab,
which I will also be staffing.
So me and a couple of colleagues will
be around to help you a little more
hands-on than we may need to be able
to do here because we will obviously
be asked to leave this room quickly
for the next session to happen.